# Second-Degree-Dissertation
Sechond-degree dissertation (research report, in Chinese)

1. 《公司金融》：我国金融机构永续债发行动及条款设计研究
2. 《金融市场与金融机构》：我国上市银行收入来源的构成及其影响因素分析
3. 《投资管理》：Fama三因素模型在 A 股市场的应用


## ABSTRACT
This dissertation is composed of three course projects corresponding to three required courses of finance area, including <i>Corporate Financing, Financial Markets and Institutions, Investment Management</i>. To this end, I go along with the topic <i>Research on the Motivation and Policy of Perpetual Debt of Financial Institutions in China </i>aiming at the course project of the first course, with the topic <i>Analysis of the Composition of Income Sources of Listed Banks in China and the Influencing Factors</i> aiming at the course project of the second course, with the topic <i>Application of the Fama Three-Factor Model in the A Stock Market</i> aiming at the course project of the last course.
In the first project, the impact of the issuance of perpetual bonds of financial institutions on their profitability is analysed and studied. We first analyse the motivation of the issuance of perpetual bonds, showing that it is one of the most effective tools for the capital supplement. Then we used the data of 20 listed banks from 2017 to 2019 to conduct empirical analysis, while using the data of 20 companies in other fields from 2011 to 2013 as a control group. The result turns out that the issuance of perpetual bonds still cannot reflect its positive impact on profitability in the short term. The longer-term impact of perpetual bonds on financial institutions still requires a period of observation and accumulation of more data. But based on theoretical analysis, we have reason to be optimistic about this.
In the second project, the proportion of each source of income of the bank and its impact on total operating income are analysed. We first defined the concept and thought that the income structure can be classified from the perspective of financial accounting, business operation, and financial statements. Then from the perspective of financial statements, this paper uses 20 listed commercial banks to conduct empirical analysis from 2017 to 2019. In the first step, we analyse the average proportion of each income component to total operating income and find that interest income dominates. In the second step, we perform the linear regression on the total operating income and each income component, finding that non-interest income has a greater impact on total operating income. We discuss this phenomenon and give some relevant suggestions.
In the third course project, this paper focuses on the applicability of the Fama three-factor model in the A Stock Market, and uses this to verify the CAPM theory. This paper randomly selects 600 companies in the A Stock Market as research samples, and utilises the daily rate of returns and related data of the 600 companies from September 30, 2017 to September 30, 2019, to perform a linear regression according to the Fama three-factor model. The regression results show that the three-factor model has very high applicability to the A Stock Market. Then we cut the data on a monthly basis, and perform a CAPM model regression on each stock data per month to obtain a set of abnormal return values. The regression of the values and the three factors show that the abnormal return can be well explained by the SMB factor and the HML factor. From this perspective, the CAPM model cannot be completely verified.

<b>Keywords:</b> perpetual debt, operating income, Fama-French three-factor, empirical analysis
